feat: Add optional XAML Trimming (#6523)
unoplatform/uno: doc/articles/features/resources-trimming.md

# XAML Resource Trimming

> XAML Resource and Binding trimming is a optional feature used to reduce the size of the final payload of an Uno Platform application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XAML Resource and Binding trimming is an optional feature used to reduce the size of the final payload of an Uno Platform application.
```

The trimming phase happens after the compilation phase and tries to determine which UI controls are not used explicitly, and removes the associated XAML styles. The XAML styles are found through the value specified in the `TargetType` attribute.

As of Uno 3.9, XAML Resources Trimming is only available for WebAssembly projects.

## Using XAML Resources trimming for applications

In order for an application to enable resources trimming, the following needs to be added in the project file:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
    <UnoXamlResourcesTrimming>true</UnoXamlResourcesTrimming>
</PropertyGroup>
```

## Enabling XAML Resources trimming for libraries

> For libraries to be elligible for resources trimming, the `UnoXamlResourcesTrimming` must also be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For libraries to be eligible for resources trimming, the `UnoXamlResourcesTrimming` tag must also be added.
```

## Troubleshooting

### Aggressive trimming
The XAML trimming phase may remove controls for which the use cannot be detected statically.

For instance, if your application relies on the `XamlReader` class, trimmed controls will not be available and will fail to load.

If XAML trimming is still needed, the [IL Linker configuration](using-il-linker-webassembly.md) can be adjusted to keep controls individually or by namespace.

### Size is not reduced even if enabled
The IL Linker tool is used to implement this feature, and can be [controlled with its configuration file](using-il-linker-webassembly.md).

For instance, if the linker configuration file contains `<assembly fullname="uno.ui" />`, none of the UI Controls will be excluded, and the final app size will remain close as without trimming.

> Note that for libraries, Uno 3.9 or later must be used to build the library, as additional metadata needs to be added a compile time. 3.8 and earlier libraries can be used in any case, but won't be elligible for trimming and may degrade the trimming phase effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that for libraries, Uno 3.9 or later must be used to build the library, as additional metadata needs to be added at compile time. 3.8 and earlier libraries can be used in any case, but won't be eligible for trimming and may degrade the trimming phase effect.
```
